Horizon User Guide/03 Customers/Create and Manage Customer and Payment Records.md, before:


# Create and Manage Customer and Payment Records

[Create a New Customer Record](#create-a-new-customer-record) <br>
[Create a Payment Record](#create-a-payment-record) <br>
[Add Payment Card](#add-payment-card) <br>
[Add Payment Plan](#add-payment-plan) <br>
[Merge Customer Records](#merge-customer-records) <br>
## Create a New Customer Record

1. **Access Customer Section**:
    
    - Go to **All Parties** in the main menu, then select **Customers**.
2. **Open New Record Form**:
    
    - Click **New Record** in the Customer section.
3. **Select Customer Type**:
    
    - Choose **Person** or **Organization** in the Type field. 

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/13_create_a_new_customer_record.png" width="300" height="500">

4. **Enter Customer Information**:
    
    - Provide the customer's name, email, phone, URLs, and address details. <br>
		⚠️ Note: Include a two-digit country code in the mailing and/or billing address.
5. **Choose Primary Contact Method**:
    
    - Select a preferred contact method by checking the box under **Primary**. <br>
     ⚠️ Note: A primary contact method must be selected to save the record.
6. **Save the Record**:
    
    - Click **Save** at the bottom right corner of the form.

## Create a Payment Record

#### Navigate to Customers

1. Go to **Customer** in the main menu.
2. Click the **Customers** tab.
3. Click **Add Payment**.

#### Enter Payment Details

4. **Amount**: Enter the payment amount.
5. **Payment Type**: Choose from ACH, Card, or Check.

- **For ACH**:
    
    - **Account Type**: Select **Checking** or **Savings**.
    - **Payment Info**: Provide the routing number, account number, and an optional memo.
    
    **For Card**:
    
    - **Payment Info**: Enter card type, expiration date, card number, and an optional memo.
    
    **For Check**:
    - **Payment Info**: Enter the check number.

#### Manage Payment Record
6. **View Payment Record**: Click the **Expand** button (>) to access an existing record.  
    
7. **Confirm Payment**: Click **Confirmed** to finalize the payment, which will update the **Payments** field and make it uneditable.
8. **Cancel Payment**: Click **Cancel Payment** to cancel, even if confirmed.
9. **Unconfirm Payment**: Click **Unconfirmed** to revert the confirmation.
10. **Save Changes**: Click **Save and Close** when finished.

#### Deleting a Payment Record

💡 **Tip**: To delete a payment record, click the (✖︎) icon next to the record and confirm by clicking **Delete** in the dialog box.

#### Important Notes:

- **Permanence**: Deleted records cannot be recovered. To recreate a record, follow the steps in **Create a Payment Record**.
- **Deletion Restrictions**: Only unconfirmed payment records can be deleted; confirmed payments cannot be removed.

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/14_confirm_process_save_add_payment.png" width="300" height="250">

## Add Payment Card

1. Click on **Add Payment Card**.
2. **Enter Payment Card Details**:
    - Fill out the payment details in the pop-up form:
    - **Type**: Select from Visa, Master Card, American Express, Discover, Diners Club, or JCB.
    - **Card Number**: Enter your card number.
    - **Security Code**: Enter the security code.
    - **Expiration Date (MM/YY)**: Enter the expiration date.
    - **ZIP Code**: Provide the five-digit ZIP code associated with the card.
    - **Last 4 Digits**: Enter the last four digits of your card number.
3. **Save Payment Card**:
    
    - Review the details and click **Save and Close** to store the payment card.

	⚠️ Once saved, you cannot make changes to the payment card.

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/15_add_payment_card.png" width="350" height="300">

## Add Payment Plan

1. Click **Add Payment Plan**. <br>
2. **Enter Payment Details**:
    
    - Specify the **Amount** and the **Number of Payments**, then click **Create Payment Schedule**. A pop-up form will display your payment schedule. <br>
3. **Save Payment Plan**:
    
    - Review the details and click **Save and Close** to finalize your payment plan.

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/16_add_payment_plan.png" width="350" height="300">

## Merge Customer Records

1. From the left pane, select the customer whose records you want to merge.
2. Click **Scripts** in the navigation bar and select **Merge Customer**.
3. Choose the customer to merge with from the list. The records of both customers will be combined.

Commit message:

Cannot Confirm if Negative Value

Horizon User Guide/03 Customers/Create and Manage Customer and Payment Records.md, after:


# Create and Manage Customer and Payment Records

[Create a New Customer Record](#create-a-new-customer-record) <br>
[Create a Payment Record](#create-a-payment-record) <br>
[Add Payment Card](#add-payment-card) <br>
[Add Payment Plan](#add-payment-plan) <br>
[Merge Customer Records](#merge-customer-records) <br>
## Create a New Customer Record

1. **Access Customer Section**:
    
    - Go to **All Parties** in the main menu, then select **Customers**.
2. **Open New Record Form**:
    
    - Click **New Record** in the Customer section.
3. **Select Customer Type**:
    
    - Choose **Person** or **Organization** in the Type field. 

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/13_create_a_new_customer_record.png" width="300" height="500">

4. **Enter Customer Information**:
    
    - Provide the customer's name, email, phone, URLs, and address details. <br>
		⚠️ Note: Include a two-digit country code in the mailing and/or billing address.
5. **Choose Primary Contact Method**:
    
    - Select a preferred contact method by checking the box under **Primary**. <br>
     ⚠️ Note: A primary contact method must be selected to save the record.
6. **Save the Record**:
    
    - Click **Save** at the bottom right corner of the form.

## Create a Payment Record

#### Navigate to Customers

1. Go to **Customer** in the main menu.
2. Click the **Customers** tab.
3. Click **Add Payment**.

#### Enter Payment Details

4. **Amount**: Enter the payment amount.
5. **Payment Type**: Choose from ACH, Card, or Check.

- **For ACH**:
    
    - **Account Type**: Select **Checking** or **Savings**.
    - **Payment Info**: Provide the routing number, account number, and an optional memo.
    
    **For Card**:
    
    - **Payment Info**: Enter card type, expiration date, card number, and an optional memo.
    
    **For Check**:
    - **Payment Info**: Enter the check number.

#### Manage Payment Record
6. **View Payment Record**: Click the **Expand** button (>) to access an existing record.  
    
7. **Confirm Payment**: Click **Confirmed** to finalize the payment, which will update the **Payments** field and make it uneditable.
**Note ⚠️**: Payments cannot be confirmed if the payment amount is negative.
8. **Cancel Payment**: Click **Cancel Payment** to cancel, even if confirmed.
9. **Unconfirm Payment**: Click **Unconfirmed** to revert the confirmation.
10. **Save Changes**: Click **Save and Close** when finished.

#### Deleting a Payment Record

💡 **Tip**: To delete a payment record, click the (✖︎) icon next to the record and confirm by clicking **Delete** in the dialog box.

#### Important Notes:

- **Permanence**: Deleted records cannot be recovered. To recreate a record, follow the steps in **Create a Payment Record**.
- **Deletion Restrictions**: Only unconfirmed payment records can be deleted; confirmed payments cannot be removed.

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/14_confirm_process_save_add_payment.png" width="300" height="250">

## Add Payment Card

1. Click on **Add Payment Card**.
2. **Enter Payment Card Details**:
    - Fill out the payment details in the pop-up form:
    - **Type**: Select from Visa, Master Card, American Express, Discover, Diners Club, or JCB.
    - **Card Number**: Enter your card number.
    - **Security Code**: Enter the security code.
    - **Expiration Date (MM/YY)**: Enter the expiration date.
    - **ZIP Code**: Provide the five-digit ZIP code associated with the card.
    - **Last 4 Digits**: Enter the last four digits of your card number.
3. **Save Payment Card**:
    
    - Review the details and click **Save and Close** to store the payment card.

	⚠️ Once saved, you cannot make changes to the payment card.

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/15_add_payment_card.png" width="350" height="300">

## Add Payment Plan

1. Click **Add Payment Plan**. <br>
2. **Enter Payment Details**:
    
    - Specify the **Amount** and the **Number of Payments**, then click **Create Payment Schedule**. A pop-up form will display your payment schedule. <br>
3. **Save Payment Plan**:
    
    - Review the details and click **Save and Close** to finalize your payment plan.

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/16_add_payment_plan.png" width="350" height="300">

## Merge Customer Records

1. From the left pane, select the customer whose records you want to merge.
2. Click **Scripts** in the navigation bar and select **Merge Customer**.
3. Choose the customer to merge with from the list. The records of both customers will be combined.
