Horizon User Guide/06 Bill of Materials/Create a Bill of Materials (BOM) Record.md, before:

# Create a Bill of Materials (BOM) Record

A Bill of Materials (BOM) is like a detailed recipe for creating a product. It outlines the necessary parts or materials, their quantities, and how they are assembled. BOMs can accommodate different versions or configurations of the product, though typically only one is used at any time for production.

## Steps to Create a BOM Record

### 1. Access BOM Section

- Open the **Bill of Materials** file from the main menu.

### 2. Initiate New Record

- Click **New Record** to start a blank record.

### 3. Add Yield or Source Item

#### 3.1 Navigate to Sources/Yields Tab

- Click on the **add yield item** and/or **add source item** field.

#### 3.2 Select Items

- **Search**: Type the item name and click the search icon (🔎).
- **Browse**: Scroll through the list and click on the item.
- Click **Done** to return.

#### 💡 Tips

- **Add New Item**: Click the add button (✚) at the top right corner of the picker window. Enter the product details (name, description, replenishment method, etc.) and click **Save**.
- **Delete Item**: Click the delete button (✖︎) next to the item and confirm by selecting **Delete** in the dialogue box.

### 4. Confirm Unit of Measure

- The unit of measure for each item is automatically set. To change it, click the **unit** type box, select the new unit of measure, and click **Done**.

### 5. Set BOM Name

- The BOM name is automatically generated based on the list of item names. You can customize it in the details tab.

### 6. Input the Quantity

- Click on the **quantity** type box and enter the quantity for each source/yield item.

#### 💡 Tip

- Use the up and down arrow keys to navigate between fields.

### 7. Add Procedural Steps

#### 7.1 Go to Procedure Tab

- Navigate to the **Procedure** tab next to the **Sources/Yields** tab.

#### 7.2 Input Step Details

- **Step Numbers**: Assign sequential numbers for clarity.
- **Instructions**: Provide clear and concise instructions for each step.
- **Duration**: Specify the duration for each step in hh:mm format (e.g., 02:20).

### ⚠️ Note

To delete the BOM record, click on **Delete Record** in the navigation buttons. Confirm the deletion in the dialogue box by selecting **Delete**.


<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/55_create_a_BOM.png" width="350" height="250">

Commit message:

Added Access BOM from Item Management button

Horizon User Guide/06 Bill of Materials/Create a Bill of Materials (BOM) Record.md, after:

# Create a Bill of Materials (BOM) Record

A Bill of Materials (BOM) is like a detailed recipe for creating a product. It outlines the necessary parts or materials, their quantities, and how they are assembled. BOMs can accommodate different versions or configurations of the product, though typically only one is used at any time for production.

## Steps to Create a BOM Record

### 1. Access BOM Section

- Open the **Bill of Materials** file from the main menu.

 💡 Tip: When in other modules like Products, Sales Orders, or Supply and Demand, you can access the BOM module by clicking Item Management > BOM.
### 2. Initiate New Record

- Click **New Record** to start a blank record.

### 3. Add Yield or Source Item

#### 3.1 Navigate to Sources/Yields Tab

- Click on the **add yield item** and/or **add source item** field.

#### 3.2 Select Items

- **Search**: Type the item name and click the search icon (🔎).
- **Browse**: Scroll through the list and click on the item.
- Click **Done** to return.

#### 💡 Tips

- **Add New Item**: Click the add button (✚) at the top right corner of the picker window. Enter the product details (name, description, replenishment method, etc.) and click **Save**.
- **Delete Item**: Click the delete button (✖︎) next to the item and confirm by selecting **Delete** in the dialogue box.

### 4. Confirm Unit of Measure

- The unit of measure for each item is automatically set. To change it, click the **unit** type box, select the new unit of measure, and click **Done**.

### 5. Set BOM Name

- The BOM name is automatically generated based on the list of item names. You can customize it in the details tab.

### 6. Input the Quantity

- Click on the **quantity** type box and enter the quantity for each source/yield item.

#### 💡 Tip

- Use the up and down arrow keys to navigate between fields.

### 7. Add Procedural Steps

#### 7.1 Go to Procedure Tab

- Navigate to the **Procedure** tab next to the **Sources/Yields** tab.

#### 7.2 Input Step Details

- **Step Numbers**: Assign sequential numbers for clarity.
- **Instructions**: Provide clear and concise instructions for each step.
- **Duration**: Specify the duration for each step in hh:mm format (e.g., 02:20).

### ⚠️ Note

To delete the BOM record, click on **Delete Record** in the navigation buttons. Confirm the deletion in the dialogue box by selecting **Delete**.


<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/55_create_a_BOM.png" width="350" height="250">
