Horizon User Guide/05 Orders/Address Demand.md, before:

# Address Demand

1. Go to **Supply and Demand** on the main menu.
2. In the [demand](#demand) list, uncheck the types of demand you don’t need ([build demand](#build-demand), [demand demand](#demand-demand), [pick demand](#pick-demand), and [purchase demand](#purchase-demand)) until only the relevant type remains checked, then click **Search**. 
4. To find demand from a specific customer, enter the customer’s name or **order number** in the search box.
5. You can address either a specific demand item, a specific type of demand, or all demands:

	5.1. To address all demands, click **address all x demands**.
	
	5.2. For a specific demand item, click **build (Item)**, **demand (Item)**, **pick (Item)**, or **purchase (Item)**.

	5.3. For a specific type of demand, click **build all**, **demand all**, **pick all**, or **purchase all**.

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/22_address_demand.png" width="350" height="300">

 💡 Tip: To unhide addressed demands, uncheck **Hide Addressed Demands**.

6. Confirmation pop-ups will appear at the start and end of batch demand generation. Click OK to proceed.

### Definition of Terms

##### Demand
Demand represents the quantity of an item required by a specific date or time. It is categorized by types such as purchase, build, or pick, which dictate how the demand should be fulfilled. Sales orders are a primary source of generating demand in this context.
###### **Build Demand**  
A quantity needs to be manufactured, assembled, or prepared.
###### **Demand Demand**  
A quantity is needed because it is required for use or consumption, indicating that it fulfills an existing demand.
###### **Pick Demand**  
A quantity needs to be transferred from one location to another within the organization.
###### **Purchase Demand**  
A quantity needs to be procured or bought. The purchase order should be placed 10 days (or 240 hours) before the item is required, accounting for the purchase lead time.

Commit message:

Added ability to view the batch name set to its initial value after demand generation

Horizon User Guide/05 Orders/Address Demand.md, after:

# Address Demand

1. Go to **Supply and Demand** on the main menu.
2. In the [demand](#demand) list, uncheck the types of demand you don’t need ([build demand](#build-demand), [demand demand](#demand-demand), [pick demand](#pick-demand), and [purchase demand](#purchase-demand)) until only the relevant type remains checked, then click **Search**. 
4. To find demand from a specific customer, enter the customer’s name or **order number** in the search box.
5. You can address either a specific demand item, a specific type of demand, or all demands:

	5.1. To address all demands, click **address all x demands**.
	
	5.2. For a specific demand item, click **build (Item)**, **demand (Item)**, **pick (Item)**, or **purchase (Item)**.

	5.3. For a specific type of demand, click **build all**, **demand all**, **pick all**, or **purchase all**.

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/22_address_demand.png" width="350" height="300">

 💡 Tip: To unhide addressed demands, uncheck **Hide Addressed Demands**.

6. Confirmation pop-ups will appear at the start and end of batch demand generation. Click OK to proceed.
7.  To view the batch name to its first value after generating demand, go to **Supply and Demand** and select **Demand Batch List** under your user account. It will be listed as the latest item.

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/staging/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/23_demand_batch_name.png" width="300" height="100">


### Definition of Terms

##### Demand
Demand represents the quantity of an item required by a specific date or time. It is categorized by types such as purchase, build, or pick, which dictate how the demand should be fulfilled. Sales orders are a primary source of generating demand in this context.
###### **Build Demand**  
A quantity needs to be manufactured, assembled, or prepared.
###### **Demand Demand**  
A quantity is needed because it is required for use or consumption, indicating that it fulfills an existing demand.
###### **Pick Demand**  
A quantity needs to be transferred from one location to another within the organization.
###### **Purchase Demand**  
A quantity needs to be procured or bought. The purchase order should be placed 10 days (or 240 hours) before the item is required, accounting for the purchase lead time.
