Horizon User Guide/05 Orders/Pick Order.md, before:

# Pick Order

A pick order is a directive to retrieve specific items from inventory and transport them to a designated location for processing or assembly. It ensures that all necessary components are collected and prepared for the next stage of production or fulfillment. 

### To Create a Pick Order:

1. [Address a pick demand.](https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/sales_order/Horizon%20User%20Guide/05%20Orders/Address%20Demand.md#build-demand)
2. Select **Demand Batch List** under **Supply and Demand**.
3. Find your user account. 
4. Choose the demand you just generated, then click the expand button (>) next to the item.
 💡 Tip: The first item in the list under your account should be the demand you just generated.
5. In the Pick Orders window, click **Create Order** for the desired pick order.
6. Once created, the order status will change to **View Order**—click on it to proceed.
7. In the Pick Order under the **Order** tab, assign an employee by clicking 'click here to select employee.'

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/sales_order/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/27_pick_order.png" width="350" height="250">

8. Enter the **Finished** date.
9. In the **Pick Order Items** section, you can add more items and adjust the quantity of each. 
10. To remove a pick order item, simply click the x icon.
11. Tap the i icon for more information.
12. Click **Confirm** to verify and finalize the details.
13. Click **Save Changes** to keep your modifications.

Commit message:

Inserted Delete Pick Order Item Image

Horizon User Guide/05 Orders/Pick Order.md, after:

# Pick Order

A pick order is a directive to retrieve specific items from inventory and transport them to a designated location for processing or assembly. It ensures that all necessary components are collected and prepared for the next stage of production or fulfillment. 

### To Create a Pick Order:

1. [Address a pick demand.](https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/sales_order/Horizon%20User%20Guide/05%20Orders/Address%20Demand.md#build-demand)
2. Select **Demand Batch List** under **Supply and Demand**.
3. Find your user account. 
4. Choose the demand you just generated, then click the expand button (>) next to the item.
 💡 Tip: The first item in the list under your account should be the demand you just generated.
5. In the Pick Orders window, click **Create Order** for the desired pick order.
6. Once created, the order status will change to **View Order**—click on it to proceed.
7. In the Pick Order under the **Order** tab, assign an employee by clicking 'click here to select employee.'

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/sales_order/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/27_pick_order.png" width="350" height="250">

8. Enter the **Finished** date.
9. In the **Pick Order Items** section, you can add more items and adjust the quantity of each. 
10. To remove a pick order item, simply click the delete (x) icon.
⚠️ **Note**: This action will automatically return the order item to the pick order. Repeat steps 2 through 5 and click **add pick order item** to include the item. 

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/sales_order/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/28_delete_pick_order_item.png" width="350" height="250">
11. Tap the i icon for more information.
12. Click **Confirm** to verify and finalize the details.
13. Click **Save Changes** to keep your modifications.
