Horizon User Guide/05 Orders/Production Order.md, before:

# Production Order

## Create a Production Order

A production order outlines the item to be produced, its required materials, and the production timeframe to ensure resource allocation.

To create a production order, follow these steps:

1. Go to **Supply and Demand** in the main menu.
2. Select **Demand Batch List** under **Supply and Demand**.
3. Click the expand button (>) next to your generated demand.

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/sales_order/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/25_demand_batch_list.png" width="350" height="250">

4. In the Production Orders window, click **Create Order** for the desired production order.
5. After the order is created, it will change to **View Order**—click on it.
6. In the Production Order under the **Order** tab, assign an employee responsible for the order by clicking on 'click here to select employee.'

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/sales_order/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/24_production_order.png" width="350" height="250">

7. Enter the dates for **Needed By**, **Started**, and **Finished**.
8. In the **Production Order Items** section, select the product type (yield or source) and adjust products, including quantity and unit of measure.
9. Tap the reverse button 🔄 to revert recent changes and restore previous settings.

	- **Adjusting Quantities:** If you change the quantity of an item (e.g., from 20.16 to 30 ounces), clicking the reverse button will prompt you to confirm the update. Once you proceed, the system will adjust the BOM to reflect the specified quantity.
	
	- **Restoring Deleted Items:** If you accidentally delete an item, the reverse button will restore it with the correct quantity when you confirm the action.
	
	- **Handling Changes:** The reverse button will adjust any modified quantities to their previous values. However, newly added items will not be affected or removed.
	
10. Tap the gear icon to access additional settings.
11. Tap the i icon for more information.
12. Click **confirm** to verify and finalize the details in your production order.
13. Go to the **Procedure** tab, add step-by-step production instructions. 

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/sales_order/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/26_procedure_tab.png" width="350" height="250">

14. You can input the estimated time duration for each step and check them off as they are completed.
15. Track the production time by using the **play button** to start and pause the timer, and click the flag icon to mark the process as finished.
16. Click **Copy Procedure** to duplicate the entire production order procedure for reuse or modification.
17. Click **Save Changes** to keep your modifications.

Commit message:

Updated Steps in Pick Order

Horizon User Guide/05 Orders/Production Order.md, after:

# Production Order

## Create a Production Order

A production order outlines the item to be produced, its required materials, and the production timeframe to ensure resource allocation.

To create a production order, follow these steps:

1. [Address a build demand.](https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/sales_order/Horizon%20User%20Guide/05%20Orders/Address%20Demand.md#build-demand) Question: What type of demand should be addressed to create a production order?
2. Select **Demand Batch List** under **Supply and Demand**.
3. Click the expand button (>) next to your generated demand.

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/sales_order/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/25_demand_batch_list.png" width="350" height="250">

4. In the Production Orders window, click **Create Order** for the desired production order.
5. After the order is created, it will change to **View Order**—click on it.
6. In the Production Order under the **Order** tab, assign an employee responsible for the order by clicking on 'click here to select employee.'

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/sales_order/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/24_production_order.png" width="350" height="250">

7. Enter the dates for **Needed By**, **Started**, and **Finished**.
8. In the **Production Order Items** section, select the product type (yield or source) and adjust products, including quantity and unit of measure.
9. Tap the reverse button 🔄 to revert recent changes and restore previous settings.

	- **Adjusting Quantities:** If you change the quantity of an item (e.g., from 20.16 to 30 ounces), clicking the reverse button will prompt you to confirm the update. Once you proceed, the system will adjust the BOM to reflect the specified quantity.
	
	- **Restoring Deleted Items:** If you accidentally delete an item, the reverse button will restore it with the correct quantity when you confirm the action.
	
	- **Handling Changes:** The reverse button will adjust any modified quantities to their previous values. However, newly added items will not be affected or removed.
	
10. Tap the gear icon to access additional settings.
11. Tap the i icon for more information.
12. Click **confirm** to verify and finalize the details in your production order.
13. Go to the **Procedure** tab, add step-by-step production instructions. 

<img src="https://github.com/Fx-Professional-Services/HorizonDocs/blob/sales_order/Horizon%20User%20Guide/00%20Assets/26_procedure_tab.png" width="350" height="250">

14. You can input the estimated time duration for each step and check them off as they are completed.
15. Track the production time by using the **play button** to start and pause the timer, and click the flag icon to mark the process as finished.
16. Click **Copy Procedure** to duplicate the entire production order procedure for reuse or modification.
17. Click **Save Changes** to keep your modifications.
